In the upcoming several sections,
we'll begin developing the ability to analyze
your blocking use-case and determine if it requires a web service or not,
whether that's the backend,
the frontend portion, or maybe both.
We'll begin by reviewing what is a web service,
then discuss considerations with integrating a blockchain with web services.
Lastly, we'll plan how to configure web services with our private blockchain.
So, we start. What is a web service?
A web service is a function that can be accessed by other programs over the web,
and don't confuse a web service with a website.
Websites allow people to communicate and collaborate with each
other while web services allow programs to communicate and collaborate with each other.
For example, you could go to the website
google.com/maps and search for
your home address to see a map of where you live in the browser.
But what if you wanted to write a computer program that takes
an address and shows a map similar to how Google map does it?
You could either write a whole new mapping program from
scratch or you could call the web service that Google map provides,
send it the address and the service will return a map of the location,
which you can display in your program.
This is a very simplified example,
but it illustrates that a web service allows programs to
retrieve information from and submit information to some resource.
Web services is split into the frontend and backend concerns.
In client-server web service models,
the frontend part is called the client,
and the server side is called the backend.
To help cement this concept in our minds,
let's check out this table comparing the frontend and the backend,
focusing on the frontend side first.
The frontend, or the client focuses on
the presentation layer such as the graphical user interface or the command line.
Common languages that developers use to create the frontend are markup or
web languages such as HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.
An example of a frontend is
the Udacity classroom that you're interacting with in this browser.
A frontend developer created
this user interface that retrieves information that you currently see.
Things such as the video file,
the text, and the images that are on the screen.
The backend or the server focuses on
the database layer or any other method of data storage.
Common languages for backend development include NO-JS, PHP,
Python, Oracle, MySQL and SAP,
and these are all scripting languages.
Remember what I said that the user interface of the Udacity classroom is a concern of
the frontend or the backend part handles storing the data you're able to see.
For example, this video was stored in some database.
When it needs to be displayed in your browser,
the frontend talked to backend in order to retrieve and display that sorted video.
Now, that wraps it up for a quick overview of what a web service is.
With that in mind, let's discuss what to
consider when integrating a blockchain with web services.